index.rst, before:

Welcome to the Cloud Automation SociaLabs!
==========================================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Getting Started:
   :hidden:



.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Labs:
   :hidden:

   _labs/agnostic constructs
   _labs/cloud agnostic bp
   _labs/working with inputs
   _labs/bootstrapping cloud init


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Solutions:
   :hidden:

   _solutions/cloud agnostic blueprint
   _solutions/working with inputs
   _solutions/bootstrapping with cloud init


Getting Started
===============

Login to the `VMware Cloud Services Portal. <https://console.cloud.vmware.com>`__

As part of the modules you will be asked to complete challenges. These are optional however it is suggested you attempt to complete these, we may give out a prize for the person who successfully completes the most. More information available on the `challenges <https://cas-socialabs.vmwapj.com/challenge/>`__ page.


+----------+---------------------------------------------------+---------------------------+
| Module   | Title                                             | Estimated Completion Time |
+==========+===================================================+===========================+
| 1        | Projects and Agnostic Constructs                  | 15 minutes                |
+----------+---------------------------------------------------+---------------------------+
| 2        | Cloud Agnostic Blueprinting                       | 30 minutes                |
+----------+---------------------------------------------------+---------------------------+
| 3        | Leveraging Version Control                        | 15 minutes                |
+----------+---------------------------------------------------+---------------------------+
| 4        | Working with Inputs                               | 15 minutes                |
+----------+---------------------------------------------------+---------------------------+
| 5        | Bootstrapping Guest Configuration with cloud-init | 15 minutes                |
+----------+---------------------------------------------------+---------------------------+
| 6        | Integrating with Configuration Management         | 30 minutes                |
+----------+---------------------------------------------------+---------------------------+
| 7        | Interacting with Third-Party Systems              | 30 minutes                |
+----------+---------------------------------------------------+---------------------------+


We encourage the use of hand signals to seek attention. This method can be used if you a question, having objective problems, thirsty, hungry or if you just don't like the presenter.

This guide is generated from `the following repo. <https://github.com/grantorchard/cas-socialabs/>`__
Please log any issues with the manuals, blueprints, or other content for us to resolve.

Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`

Commit message:

Added recommendation to pause at end of module

index.rst, after:

Welcome to the Cloud Automation SociaLabs!
==========================================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Getting Started:
   :hidden:



.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Labs:
   :hidden:

   _labs/agnostic constructs
   _labs/cloud agnostic bp
   _labs/working with inputs
   _labs/bootstrapping cloud init


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Solutions:
   :hidden:

   _solutions/cloud agnostic blueprint
   _solutions/working with inputs
   _solutions/bootstrapping with cloud init


Getting Started
===============

Login to the `VMware Cloud Services Portal. <https://console.cloud.vmware.com>`__

As part of every module, there could be a challenge to complete. These are optional however we encourage everyone to have to a go. More information available on the `challenges <https://cas-socialabs.vmwapj.com/challenge/>`__ page.

Before each module, the instructor will discuss and demonstrate the topic. Whilst we like enthusiasm we recommend everyone pauses at the completion of each module until the instructor starts that particular topic. 


+----------+---------------------------------------------------+---------------------------+
| Module   | Title                                             | Estimated Completion Time |
+==========+===================================================+===========================+
| 1        | Projects and Agnostic Constructs                  | 15 minutes                |
+----------+---------------------------------------------------+---------------------------+
| 2        | Cloud Agnostic Blueprinting                       | 30 minutes                |
+----------+---------------------------------------------------+---------------------------+
| 3        | Leveraging Version Control                        | 15 minutes                |
+----------+---------------------------------------------------+---------------------------+
| 4        | Working with Inputs                               | 15 minutes                |
+----------+---------------------------------------------------+---------------------------+
| 5        | Bootstrapping Guest Configuration with cloud-init | 15 minutes                |
+----------+---------------------------------------------------+---------------------------+
| 6        | Integrating with Configuration Management         | 30 minutes                |
+----------+---------------------------------------------------+---------------------------+
| 7        | Interacting with Third-Party Systems              | 30 minutes                |
+----------+---------------------------------------------------+---------------------------+


We encourage the use of hand signals to seek attention. This method can be used if you a question, having objective problems, thirsty, hungry or if you just don't like the presenter.

This guide is generated from `the following repo. <https://github.com/grantorchard/cas-socialabs/>`__
Please log any issues with the manuals, blueprints, or other content for us to resolve.

Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`
